ToS;DR points/README v0.2 (**draft**) 04/10/2012 12:23:21 

Copyright 2012 Unhosted, hugo@fsfe.org

This work is licensed under the Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License. To view a copy of
this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/
or send a letter to Creative Commons, 444 Castro Street, Suite
900, Mountain View, California, 94041, USA.

# What are these .json files?

The json files in the /points directory are information related to
terms of service, privacy policies and other agreements binding
users and services online. Each point should be linked to a
discussion on the public mailing-list.
 
# id

"id" are unique identifiers that we use to refer to specific data
contained in that id.json file. Example a file 12345.json:

        "id": "12345"

Usually, that id is the same as the thread-id from the mailing
list. So for example, the mailing-list thread
https://groups.google.com/d/topic/tosdr/MCGx3DtQHM8/discussion has
the id MCGx3DtQHM8, so if you create a point starting from this
discussion, you should give it the same id: MCGx3DtQHM8 and call
the file MCGx3DtQHM8.json

There is one exception for this rule: when we make standardised
points, i.e. two or more services have essentially the same
clause, we create a new point with a meaningful id. For instance,
see the point about services making changes to their terms without
delay and without notice:
https://github.com/tosdr/didnotread.org/blob/master/points/any-time-without-notice.json.
In that case, don't forget to avoid duplication between the new
unified point and the former service-specific points (see below,
about "irrelevant" points).

# name 

This is the name of the data point as the user sees it. For
instance:

        "name": "Service-X spies on their users" or

        "name": "Very broad copyright license on your content"
	
The name is very important, as it is the first thing in the
summary the user will see. Please use a capital letter to begin
with. Don't make half-formed sentences like "will send you a
notice 14 days in advance" but prefer "Service-X will send you a
notice 14 days in advance" or even better, for usual topics:
"Changes will be notified 14 days in advance". One thing that
makes good names also is to start with "Services-X do something"
or "You/Your… etc." That way it's easy for the user to identify
who's got to do what.

Also, don't use abbreviations or acronyms unless everybody
understands them. For instance, don't say "personal info" but
"personal information" and don't use "ToS", you can just write
"terms".

# service

This is the list of services to which the point apply. You have to
use the service's id. For this, look in the services/ directory
for the service's file. If you do not find it, then maybe you need
to create it. Follow the instructions in services/README.md for
this.
	
# discussion

This is a link to allow people to participate in our discussion
related to a specific issue. Be careful with Google Group's URLs.
They are not always working properly. You must use the permanent
link given by the interface (on the top right hand cordner). The
URLs look like:
https://groups.google.com/d/topic/tosdr/NeB0FqXZczI/discussion
	
If the URL contains symbols like !# or | then it's probably not
the right one.

# tosdr

This is where the data value is.

## topic

Which topic is the point dealing with? You have to use the topic's
id. For this, look in the topics/ directory for the topic's file.
Follow the instructions in topics/README.md for this. You can
assign multiple topics, but usually this should not be needed.

## point

A point can be good, mediocre, alert or not bad. These equal to
the green thumbs-up or or ange thumbs-down, to the red cross or to
the grey arrow that means "informative" or "neutral" i.e. it does
not influence the class of the service to which it applies.

## score

The score is between 0 and 100. The higher it is: the more it
weighs on the class of the service and the higher it appears in
the summary.

## tldr

This is the summary, the recap of what the clause in the terms do.
It is usually a very difficult exercise. Try not to make more than
5 sentences, but sometimes more is needed. Be creative. Feel free
to include some quotes from the terms directly. It is very
important that it is easy to understand and written in plain
English. Do not hesitate to include links.

# source

To which document does it apply? Is it from the terms, the privacy
policy, the FAQ? Look in the service JSON files to see which
documents you can use as source. If none applies, then maybe you
should just give the url.

# meta

This is meta information, mostly copyright information for now.
Please write your name and email there if you create a point.
Contributors should credit the people who participated on the
mailing-list about the elaboration of the discussion from which
the point comes.

# disputed

When a point is no longer making consensus and being disputed, add
a disputed field. It means it should be resolved in the discussion
on the mailing-list.

# Other

These two apply when you are making modifications to a point. If
you are *creating* a point and that you are adding these, then
there might be a problem and maybe the discussion has not shown
what is the valuable issue that should be brought up.

## irrelevant points

When a point was created but then is judged irrelevant, add 

        "irrelevant": true, 
        "reason": "the point is irrelevant because…"
	
Some reasons why a point can be irrelevant:

 * it has nothing to do with terms, at all (for instance: whether
 * the service has a nice design interface, whether it uses free
 * software as a backend, whether they provide HTTPS, etc.) it has
 * been superseded by a duplicated point, for instance this
 * happens when we create standardised points applying to multiple
 * services it no longer applies, for instance when a service has
 * changed their terms.
 
## additional points

Additional points are points which are somewhat related to the
terms, but they're almost irrelevant. They don't influence the
class and they are not displayed.

# template

        { 
        "id": "template", 
        "name": "This is a template json
        file", 
        "service": "list-in-services-directory", 
        "tosdr": {
            "topic": "track", 
            "point": choose between: "mediocre", "good", "alert", "not bad", 
            "score": 0, 
            "tldr": "" 
        },
        "discussion": "https://groups.google.com/d/topic/tosdr/template/discussion",
        "source": { 
            "terms": "https://www.facebook.com/full_data_use_policy#inforeceived"
        }, 
        "meta": { 
            "license-for-this-file":"This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License. To view a copy of this license visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/ or send a letter to Creative Commons, 444 Castro Street, Suite 900, Mountain View, California, 94041, USA.",
            "author": "ToS;DR by Unhosted", 
            "contributors": [ "Hugo Roy <hugo@unhosted.org>" ]
        }
        }
